Load-balancer explanation page (#965)
canonical/k8s-snap: docs/src/snap/explanation/load-balancer.md

## Load balancer

> {{ product }}' load balancer feature allows you to expose your workloads
> externally. A load balancer is an important component that allows you to
> distribute incoming network traffic from outside of your cluster to the
> services inside.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ product }}' load balancer feature allows you to expose your workloads
externally and distribute incoming network traffic from outside of your 
cluster to the services inside.
```

## Kubernetes service types

Kubernetes allows you to expose your cluster's workloads in the following ways:

- **ClusterIP**: Exposes the service on a cluster-internal IP. With ClusterIP
  the service is only reachable from within the cluster.
- **NodePort**: Exposes the service on each Node's IP at a static port.
- **LoadBalancer**: Exposes a single IP address to distribute the incoming
  network traffic across multiple cluster nodes.

```{note}

> The load balancer service type at layer 4 should not be confused with the Ingress Controller which operates at layer 7 (HTTP/HTTPS) and routes traffic from outside of your cluster to services inside of your cluster. Learn more about Ingress in the [Ingress guide][Ingress].

Reviewer: Do we need to capitalize "Ingress"?

Reviewer 2: I would have said no instinctively but on the Kubernetes upstream docs they refer to Ingress with a capital if talking about the concept/objects. Lower case ingress is used only when using it in terms of its dictionary definition.

Author: That's what we're doing in the Ingress docs...

> The load balancer service type at layer 4 should not be confused with the Ingress Controller which operates at layer 7 (HTTP/HTTPS) and routes traffic from outside of your cluster to services inside of your cluster. Learn more about Ingress in the [Ingress guide][Ingress].

Reviewer 3: nit: This line is longer than 80 chars

```

## Use case

> The {{ product }}' load balancer feature is suitable for bare-metal setups and
> private data-centers. If you are operating {{ product }} in a public cloud you
> should consider using your cloud-provider's load balancing solution instead.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The {{ product }}' load balancer feature is suitable for bare-metal setups and
private data-centers. If you are operating {{ product }} in a public cloud you
should evaluate your cloud-provider's load balancing solution as well.
```

## IP address allocation

The load balancer feature assigns and releases IP addresses
for services of type LoadBalancer from a pool of IPs. Learn how to configure
the IP address pool with the [default load balancer] guide.

## Advertising IP address externally

> The load balancer feature advertises the external IP address of the service
> outside of the cluster. To accomplish this, the load balancer uses either Layer
> 2 mode or Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Mode:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The load balancer feature advertises the external IP address of the service
outside of the cluster. To accomplish this, the load balancer uses either Layer
2 mode or Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) Mode.
```

### Layer 2 Mode 

In Layer 2 mode, a cluster node takes the
responsibility of spreading the traffic for a service IP to its associated
pods using [kube-proxy]. Traffic routing relies on Address Resolution
Protocol ([ARP]) for IPv4 and Neighbor Discovery Protocol ([NDP])
for IPv6. While this mode is easy to implement, it is only suitable for
small-scale deployments. Consult the [layer 2 mode documentation] for more
information.

### BGP Mode

With BGP mode, neighboring routers exchange routing information
through peering sessions enabling efficient traffic distribution.
Traffic is balanced across nodes ensuring efficient resource utilization.
While this approach is more difficult to implement, it is suitable for
large-scale deployments. Refer to the [bgp mode documentation] for more
details.

## Traffic flow with a load balancer

When you expose a service with a load balancer, the following steps occur:

- A client sends a request to the external IP address allocated by the load
  balancer.
- The load balancer decides which Kubernetes node should handle the request
  based on the selected underlying mechanism (BGP or Layer 2).

> - The node receiving the request routes it to a specific pod in the service
>    with [kube-proxy]. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [kube-proxy] routes the request to a specific pod in the service. 
```

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Further reading
```
